# Meta-Module #6: Data Wrangling

This “meta-module” introduces tools and best practices for cleaning and re-structuring tabular data in preparation for data analysis and visualization. 

**Estimated Completion Time = ? hours**

## Outcomes

* Increased understanding of 
* Increased understanding of 

## Introduction

<sup>[1](#note1)</sup> 

Notes:</br>
<sup><a name="note1">1</a></sup> Dietrich, Craig, and Ashley Sanders. July 26, 2016. "On the Word, Digital." *dh+lib* 2016 Special Issue. https://acrl.ala.org/dh/2016/07/29/on-the-word-digital/ </br>

## Activities

- [ ] Complete [SSRC Module 6: Thinking about Data](https://labs.ssrc.org/dds/articles/6-thinking-about-data/) <br>
	Alternate activity: instead of, or in addition to, the SSRC tutorial for OpenRefine, which recommends the excellent [“Cleaning Data with Open Refine”](https://programminghistorian.org/en/lessons/cleaning-data-with-openrefine) lesson at The Programming Historian, you may want to dive deeper with the Data Carpentry lesson, ["OpenRefine for Social Science Data"](https://datacarpentry.org/openrefine-socialsci/).

- [ ] Additional Readings
	* Rawson, Katie, and Trevor Muñoz. July 6, 2016. “Against Cleaning.” http://curatingmenus.org/articles/against-cleaning/ **◊  Estimated Read Time = 30 minutes**
	* Onuoha, Mimi. February 10, 2016. "The Point of Collection." https://points.datasociety.net/the-point-of-collection-8ee44ad7c2fa **◊  Estimated Read Time = 5 minutes**

- [ ] Explore Mimi Onuoha's "On Missing Data Sets" <br>
	Before data can be cleaned or transformed, it has to be collected, yet there is a limit to how much and what kinds of data we can or should collect. Explore the list of "missing data sets" and other resources in this repository, considering how our data collection methods may impact the kinds of data that are available to researchers in different disciplines.

- [ ] 

- [ ] "Meta" Questions to Consider
	* What does it mean to "clean" or "wrangle" data? Is "data cleaning" content-agnostic: does it matter what the data actually represent?
	* In what ways is "data cleaning" a selective, critical, or subjective process? What kinds of decisions are made in the transformation of data from "raw" to "processed" form?
	* What challenges might researchers from different disciplines face in the data-wrangling process: does survey data require a different approach, for example, than data generated by a scientific instrument or historical census data? How does your library support researchers working with data in the humanities, social sciences, and health or natural sciences?

- [ ] Short Reflection
	* Take a few minutes and try to articulate what you will take away from the readings, activities, and resources covered in this module. What is one concept that you feel you now understand better? One topic that was completely new to you? One question you would like to explore further? 

## Additional Resources

### Some sources of open data:

* ...



